Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Lecture.
Now this question comes from Phillips Speeds,
and Philip Possess has a workbook with a couple of sheets,
and there are three columns of data spare part number one,
spare part number two apart description.
And now,
sometimes there's gaps in the data,
so either part number one or part number two is missing.
But basically what we want to find out does either part number one or two in sheet one
exist in sheet,
too,
and vice versa on then to wrap that,
all of that the end.
What we want to see is a count of how many times that parts being used.
Now.
I actually think that each of the entries each of the roses,
a unique use on going after butcher The data have created for this,
but anyway,
that lets the task.
So it's really straightforward to do.
Actually,
it's just a simple count.
If so,
let's crack on.
Okay,
here's the data.
No,
I've mocked this up on what I have a partner was one partner was to description in sheet
one and then cheating have pardonable one part number two on description Onda counts.
Is that the final sheet where we're just gonna do a count of how many's homes?
Everything has been used.
Now there is perhaps a more simple explanation to this because from looking at the data set
that said that Philip provided,
I think the unique value is actually the description from the screen caps.
This part number corresponds to this description.
This part number corresponds to this this description in both sheets.
So actually,
the unique identify is neither of the part numbers.
But the description on that's going to make it easier for us in the count as well.
I'll show you very quickly how to do it if it's both,
but it's just basically a duplication of the first test.
Now what I'm gonna do here,
because I had just unique entries for everything,
just copy that down.
So we have at least till interest for one thing.
Okay,
so this is a really simple camped if I'm on sheet one of the minutes,
so I'm just gonna say count if open brackets and the first argument is the range,
this is where we want to look.
Now again,
I'm assuming the description is unique.
So I'm coming to sheet to I'm just going to highlight or select all of column C comma I'm
gonna flip back to she won,
and I'm gonna point to the description in C two.
So I'm looking in sheet two columns,
See for a match to what is in column C to closer rackets and enter.
And they go.
We can see that screw one does not exist in sheet,
too.
Now,
I'm just going to copy that formula down.
So they go.
You can see that screw one does not exist in sheet to.
Neither does it,
isn it?
Does this need those extra screw five?
Most definitely appears once somewhere down here,
Screw five.
There you go.
So it's a simple count I where we are looking on what we are looking for,
this will give us the count that we may even want tohave.
Just a simple yes or no response here.
And that's fairly simple.
We just need to wrap a logical tests around.
So what we're gonna say is,
if open brackets all of this,
this count if evaluates to zero,
that is the wasn't a match.
We want to return the value off no comet.
And if it does,
then return a value of yes.
We're not really bothered about whether it appears more than once.
We just want to know that it appears.
So we're no or yes will do its lips.
Yes,
let's accept that.
So let me just stick that in the centre.
Copy that down with stomach like they go.
So we get No.
Yes.
No,
no,
no.
And all of that coming to think no one would do.
It's just copy that test.
So here's our own says for sheet one,
in fact,
So let me just copy the 1st 1 uh,
copy the formula bump,
and then I'm gonna flip over to shake,
too,
And I'm just gonna pace that in here.
But I'm gonna need to change that sheet to to sheet one on that sheet 12 sheet to to get
the reverse ounces.
So there we go.
That is the test.
Okay,
Test number one.
Right now.
Let me just copy that down.
Now,
just for completeness.
What we could have done if we were actually looking for the part numbers was do something
very simple.
Similar.
We're going to say equals If now let's let's forget a logical sense Let's just say cans if
open brackets Range column A B comma and the criteria we're looking for is part number one
,
and then we get a camp for that on all we're gonna do here it's a copy and then come right
to the end and say I'm a in India's plus exactly the same thing.
But this time we're gonna looking column B two.
So we're now looking for part numbers apart number two in the same column.
So I'm just changing that to be on enter and that way we can see Let me just can't copy
that names.
I'm not next,
you Tater they go.
You can see that here.
We've managed to count Emily instances of this.
Plus,
this exist in the other sheets.
I'll leave that in there just in case you want to play with it.
Now,
back to the assumption that the description is the unique identify or we're gonna do is
we're gonna copy all of these descriptions here,
flip over to the count sheets and just paste them under here.
I'm just gonna pay special.
No,
I'm going to go to sheet too.
And I'm gonna copy exactly the same thing Control and say,
flip over to the count sheets and paste under here A realize you're not going to see all of
that on the screen.
But what I'm gonna do,
select all of that data or come down some groups,
I'll come down so you can see that I have actually hit the bottom of the data not to let me
go up a bit.
So,
Lee,
she was a little bit more OK,
the bottom one slightly out to shot.
Now what we're gonna do is we're gonna come over to the dang attack.
We're gonna hit,
remove duplicates and we're looking a column A We're going to click.
OK,
and 11 Jew pickup values were found on removed.
So all I'm induced.
Click OK.
And then what we should be left with though it's slightly off screen is a list of all the
unique entries.
Now,
I'm just going to talk to that up.
Going back to the home ribbon a making alphabetical Just cause it's pretty to read that way
you can see we have a random hammer in there.
Now,
this is just a duplication.
What we've just done.
It's just account if plus another counted so equals can't if open rackets the range is she
One column see the description common.
And I'm gonna come back to here,
and I'm looking at this close brackets.
Plus she two column C comma on again.
I am looking at exactly the same thing.
This and so we're looking for bolt one.
You neither column C of sheet one or Colin Chief seats hip sheet to hit.
Enter and ive obviously missed something.
Can't if a plus,
okay,
obviously have the count.
If in theirs will cans if open brackets and that should do it.
Okay,
so Bolt one appears once between the two sheets,
the use appear to let me just change the data a little bit.
So not three.
Let's have no three in there a few times.
And hopefully when we find not three on here,
they note three appears four times,
it appears,
Appears on here it once.
It appears on here once,
and it's appears on the here three times.
So the count is for hopefully that makes sense.
If you have any questions,
just let me know.
I'll see you in the next lecture